The Klaustreich...
I came in contact with
was aggressive...
Predatory...
And...
A real ass.
I can't write that.
What's the word?
Mean?
No.
Catty?
Big no.
Got it.
Sadistic.
And treacherous.
♪ ♪
What time does that leave?
Thank you for calling Raz bus line.
♪ ♪
Wenn sie verstehen was ich sage.
dann lassen sie mich mal wissen.
Yes. I understand.
Sehr gut.
One can't be too careful.
entering the home
of a police captain.
before introductions are made.
you know.
So true.
I was just. uh. following protocol.
I don't care if you are
working for the Verrat.
The next time you let yourself
into my home uninvited.
I will shoot you.
In self-defense. of course.
My dear Captain.
if you didn't speak German.
you'd be dead by now.
But. may I introduce myself?
My name is Edgar waltz.
Who are you hunting?
His name is Ian Harmon.
What's he done?
He's a leader of the resistance.
One of the few still alive.
What's he done here in Portland?
I don't know and I don't care.
Time is of the essence
and I need to find him.
We believe the resistance
has established a presence here
to harbor fugitives
and make them disappear.
The Verrat's problem
is with the resistance.
They're not my problems.
Maybe your past is not
as far away as you think.
The Verrat does not make
decisions for me.
The high command will not
be happy about that.
I'm not concerned.
It would be better for you
to be concerned about me
and what will happen
should you refuse to help.
I hope your Latin is as good
as your German.
Si vis pacem...
Para bellum.
Auf wiedersehen. Captain.
"Si vis pacem. para bellum."
"If you seek peace. prepare for war."
Thanks for picking him up.
I don't get my car back
till tomorrow.
- Coffee? Bacon?
- I usually take cream
with my coffee. but I'll try bacon.
I heard about you and adalind.
We were together
for about half a cup of coffee.
I don't know what happened.
where it came from.
but I'm glad it's over.
Well. between you and me.
she was definitely
not good enough for you.
If she wasn't a lawyer.
I'd think she roofied me.
- What?
- I woke up. she was gone.
And these two other people
who were in the room with me...
It's more than I want to get into.
I think it's more than I want you to.
Whoa. whoa. whoa.
- He is mine.
- All yours.
- Mwah!
- See you tonight?
We got a shooting at the bus depot.
- Any bodies?
- Just blood.
Yuck.
- Watch your butts out there.
- We will.
Sync and correction by Mlmlte
www.addic7ed.com
Rosalee!
Ian?
Oh. my God.
- What happened to you?
- I was shot.
I have to get you to a hospital.
No. no. you can't.
If they find out where I am.
I'm as good as dead.
Where's Freddy?
Freddy was killed.
In a robbery. a few weeks ago.
Freddy was supposed
to have some papers for me.
That's why I'm here.
Papers for what?
A new identity.
Who's trying to kill you?
It's better if you don't know.
And it's better if I leave.
You're not going anywhere.
Not like this.
Let me help you up.
I'll get you something for the pain.
I'm gonna get some help.
Apparently the gunman
crossed the street here.
Fired three times.
Hence. broken car window.
the defacing of our
friendly visitor greeting.
Best guess is bloodstain belongs
to bullet number three.
- So somebody got hit.
- But no body.
Not yet.
Search is ongoing.
No blood trail to follow.
so we cordoned off five blocks.
Any description
of the shooter or the Vic?
We got a witness at the bus
station. awaiting your arrival.
Maybe surveillance tape.
And. uh. can I get that. please?
This.
9 millimeter.
Yep. Let's check the witness.
I didn't see the shooter.
But I saw the guy that was on my bus.
He left this hat on the seat.
I tried to catch up with him.
but he was moving way too fast.
Then I saw that car window shatter.
I didn't know what the hell
was going on.
Figured it was some kind
of gang thing.
What can you tell us about him?
His name.
This is the ticket he used
to board the bus.
Paid in cash.
Lester Cullum.
Had one of those
old leather rucksacks.
You don't see too many
of those anymore.
British. I think.
He had an accent.
Anyway. the name Lester Cullum
sounds kind of British.
What's wrong?
I smell blood.
I know.
Come with me.
Please tell me
this isn't another Zaubertrank.
No. this one's a bullet.
Well. look at that.
Ian. this is my friend Monroe.
Monroe. this is Ian.
Hey.
Is he a doctor?
No. but he's gonna help me
get the bullet out.
Why aren't we taking him
to a hospital?
We can't.
We have to do this now.
I'm sorry. I don't entirely
understand the situation here.
Ian is an old friend.
He's on the run.
Someone tried to kill him.
Well. what did he do?
- Have you heard of the Lauffer?
- The Lauffer?
You mean the resistance?
Yeah. sure.
But that's not here.
that's old-country stuff.
Well. it's here now.
That's Ian Harmon.
- Have you heard of him?
- Really? The journalist?
Yeah. well. he does that too.
He's one of the leaders
of the resistance.
So are we talking about the Verrat?
- Because those guys are serious.
- I think so.
Look. I cleaned the wound.
I can see the bullet.
It's not that far in.
And we're gonna get it out how?
This was my father's.
I used to watch him
do this kind of thing.
I just don't want to do it alone.
Okay.
What do you want me to do?
Wash your hands.
sterilize these.
Upper right.
We should see him.
That's got to be him.
Average height.
average build. rucksack.
That'll narrow it down.
Any luck with the I.D.?
I'm having a little trouble
connecting Lester Cullum
to anybody.
It could be an alias.
What about the bullet?
They thought it was a regular
9 millimeter. It's not.
According to ballistics.
the makeup of the brass
identifies the company as
Deutsche Waffen munitions.
who manufactured their bullets
for their Luger
semi-automatic pistols.
What is this. 1944?
Actually. it was introduced in 1902.
I think that eliminates
a gang shooting.
More like a hit gone wrong.
So we got a shooter on the loose.
And nothing from the hospitals.
Nobody showing up with bullet
wounds in the last 12 hours.
We should check with
the St. Louis pd.
where Lester Cullum boarded the bus.
See if we can get
any hits on him there.
If we've got a shooter
still out there
and the guy he's after
is still alive.
he's gonna try again.
What the hell did you do that for?
Bring it right here. right here!
Get off!
Hey. knock it off.
I said. "knock it off"!
Idiots.
Sorry about that. buddy.
Got one on the house for you.
Oh. thank you.
Won't break me.
Very kind.
Look. I'm in kind of a jam.
I was wondering if you know
of any place
where they make some kind of papers.
I'm a little out of date.
You know what I mean?
What kind of papers you looking for?
You know. something
that will get me out of here.
- Passport stuff.
- Yes.
Uh...
Oh. this guy's good.
- He's just downtown.
- Oh.
Yes. uh. are you sure he's the best?
'Cause I can't afford
to get caught again.
Anybody in town like us
needs a job like that.
- he's the one.
- Good. good. Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Oh. better not leave this.
How is it they allow
a Lausenschlange to serve food?
What?
Hundjager.
What do you want?
A dead man.
Anybody knows the truth
about who he is.
what he's running from?
Any of it?
He was a friend of Freddy's.
Look don't get me wrong.
I liked Freddy.
But he was involved with
some seriously shady people.
Freddy made some mistakes.
Just like we all do.
But I knew him too.
Well enough to trust him?
I was...
With him for a year and a half.
Oh.
We're talking more than just...
Yes.
It was a long time ago.
Can I ask what happened?
He left.
I wasn't happy about it.
But that is all in the past.
Look. if someone is really
trying to kill this guy.
we should call Nick.
I mean. I don't know what he'll say
about being introduced to a Grimm.
but right now.
this guy doesn't have a lot
to say about anything.
Rosalee.
- I'm here.
- Rosalee.
The same casing as the bus station.
9x19-millimeter parabellum.
Single bullet to the head.
No muss. no fuss.
Killer came in here with a plan.
Which looks like
"get the money and get out."
He might have tried to fight back.
A passport here.
"Ian Harmon."
Huh. Kind of looks like
the guy the bus driver I.D.'d.
wasn't he the victim?
- Victims need money too.
- Hey. sarge?
Yeah.
We got
a possible witness out front.
Okay. hold him.
Got a possible witness outside.
- Who wants him?
- Got it.
Hi. I'm Detective Burkhardt.
Oh. hi. hi Detective.
I was across the street
and I saw this man come running.
and didn't think anything
of it at first.
And then the police cars came here
and they told me
the bartender was shot.
Do you think you could identify
the man you saw?
If I saw him again. maybe. yeah.
Did you...
Did you arrest anybody?
Not yet. no.
Is this the man you saw?
Just take it easy.
I'm sorry. I was just trying to help.
I just want to know
if this is the man you saw.
Yes. sir. yeah.
that's him. that's him.
All right.
Gonna need your name and number.
just in case we need
confirmation on the I.D.
Yes. of course.
Max Kurtz.
K-u-r...
Drink this.
Look. I hope you warned your friend
that it could be very dangerous
for either of you
to be wherever I am.
Hey. you want to meet someone
who's dangerous to be around?
Should meet my friend Nick.
He's a...
He's a friend who...
He can...
Well. uh...
- He's a Grimm.
- Well. okay.
So much for the hemming and hawing.
- Are you serious?
- Actually. yes. very.
But. look. he's not
what you've ever heard about.
He's right.
Nick is not what you'd expect.
He caught the men responsible
for killing Freddy.
And he helped me
when I first got here
and had to deal with his murder
and the shop and everything.
And he got Monroe to help me
when it was dangerous for me.
Monroe's been helping me ever since.
And how much did you have
to pay this Grimm
to go after
the man who killed Freddy?
I didn't have to pay him anything.
Yeah. um. that's the other shoe.
He's a cop.
I know.
My first encounter with him
wasn't exactly friendly.
But let me tell you.
Nick is the real deal.
And if you need help
in this town. he is the man.
Or the Grimm.
I know it's a lot to fathom.
but he's friends with a Blutbad.
And a Fuchsbau.
Listen. dude. he has saved my ass
and I've saved his.
Believe it or not. he's just
trying to do the right thing.
Do you know about the resistance?
Yeah.
Do you know who the Verrat sends
after anyone associated with it?
No.
Hundjager.
That is so not good.
Rosalee. do you trust this man?
I do.
Well. then. by all means.
put my life in his hands.
Possible motive
for killing the bartender
was the money in the register.
But our suspect
was supposed to be wounded
- when he got off the bus.
- Could explain his desperation.
Any identification
on the man who shot Harmon?
Nothing.
He wasn't on the bus.
didn't show up
on surveillance cameras.
The bar didn't have any security
except the alarm and...
It was off.
Let's pull out all the stops.
Find the one we know... Harmon.
Hopefully. he'll lead us
to whoever shot him.
- Yes. sir.
- And check with Scotland yard.
See if they have
any record on Harmon.
Might help us identify
who this other man is.
Yeah. Burkhardt.
Could you get down
to the spice shop asap?
Why? What's going on?
It's kind of complicated.
There's a man here.
He's like
a civil rights activist. slash...
I don't know...
Freedom fighter.
With a bullet wound.
Yeah. I'll be right there.
Yeah.
Wie geht's Captain.
- How is your day?
- Where are you?
I'm enjoying your city.
It's really quite nice.
It reminds me a little of Firenze.
So have you made any progress on
that terrible murder at the bar?
You laid out the evidence
a little too obviously
for my taste.
Well. if you'd helped me
when I asked.
we wouldn't be having
this conversation right now.
You needed a reason to find Ian.
and now you have it.
I'm glad you're taking him
seriously now.
You never know when a desperate
man like that will strike again.
Oh. by the way. I liked
your Detective Burkhardt.
There's more to him
than meets the eye.
What do you want?
I want to know why you didn't tell me
that you had a Grimm working for you.
He could be very useful to me.
Why don't you make that happen?
He doesn't know about me.
Then you are playing
a very dangerous game.
my dear Captain.
"Reginald's camera." Okay.
- Beautiful. aren't they?
- Oh. yes. yes.
I mean. the Leica II
belongs in a museum.
And the Voigtlander...
Very nice. very nice.
I would say you must be from Germany.
Yes. yes.
I think my accent gets thicker
when I look at German cameras.
Well. feel free to look around.
I like to think of this shop
as my own private museum.
Oh. thank you. thank you.
Yes. yes.
Oh. beautiful.
Look at that.
These pictures.
Did you take them?
- Yes.
- Oh.
That's my daughter Julia.
- Yes?
- And her kids...
Emily. Tommy and Joey.
Tommy. Joey too.
Oh. gorgeous.
Look at the quality
of the light and the detail.
All this digital nonsense
has no sense of depth.
No. no. no.
Do you collect?
Not cameras.
Let me show you my favorite.
This is a 1926 Luger po8 9 millimeter
with a silencer.
It's been in my family
for generations.
It works perfectly.
I can't say I'm a big fan of guns.
I can imagine.
Especially when
you have something to hide.
I don't know
what you're talking about.
Let me tell you.
You might shoot photographs
of your family.
well. I will just shoot them.
Unless you decide that they
are worth more than lying to me.
Yes? Good. Good.
We understand each other.
- Huh. Reginald?
- What do you want?
Oh. yes.
Let me show you.
Have you seen this man?
Come on.
Good. you made it.
Rosalee called me this morning.
early.
She said she had some kind of
breaking and entering problem.
You said "bullet wound."
Yeah. I know.
Hang on. I'm getting to that.
- Don't move.
- Whoa!
Nick!
Nick. wait! Wait.
This man's wanted for murder.
Well I guess he's just trying
to do the right thing.
I've found his passport
next to the bartender that he shot.
Ian lost his bag when he was shot.
That's how the guy
who shot him got his passport.
That's what he told you?
When was this bartender shot?
- Four hours ago.
- Then it can't be him. Nick.
We've been with him
for longer than that.
Ian's been here since
I opened the shop this morning.
Clearly he wants you
to find me because he can't.
That's why he shot this bartender.
If you arrest me right now.
then he'll know exactly where I am.
- Did you check him for weapons?
- He doesn't have any.
He came here because my brother
was supposed to help him.
Well. Nick Burkhardt.
meet Ian Harmon.
- Ian. Nick.
- A pleasure.
The man who's trying
to kill you. what's his name?
Edgar waltz.
He's an enforcer for the Verrat.
Verrat? I thought
they only operated in Europe.
Their influence is spreading.
They occupy positions
of power everywhere...
Politics. industry. organized crime.
Anything that is corruptible is
susceptible to their influence.
Even law enforcement.
Nick. these guys make
the Spanish inquisition
look like the SPCA.
And Ian's resistance group...
The Lauffer...
Is the only thing
that stands in their way.
This world is on the brink of war.
The turmoil in the middle east.
the crises in Europe.
the Arab spring...
All of it is tied together.
Agents of the Verrat.
working for the seven houses.
have infiltrated the highest
levels of all governments.
- The seven houses?
- The seven royal families.
This is not a new struggle.
It's been going on for centuries.
With this struggle. the royal
families recognize opportunities
to gain more control.
People. driven by fear.
choose stability over freedom.
when their neighbors start to die.
My parents were part
of the resistance
and my grandparents. my brother.
I never wanted to be involved.
It always seemed so far away.
Your people changed
the balance of power
when they decided
to work for the royal families.
I don't know
what you're talking about.
Grimms.
Evidently you don't even know
how valuable you are
to the royals.
Look...
I don't mean to be insensitive.
but right now I'm trying
to find a murderer.
not get a Wesen history lesson.
Nick. Ian needs your help.
We have to get him out
of here before waltz finds him.
The only reason he's not dead.
is because the bullet
went through his pack first.
But he lost his papers.
And without them. he can't leave.
Are you talking
about getting false documents
to get him out of the country?
I'm sorry.
This just keeps getting
better and better.
Rosalee's brother was
the last stop for Wesen trying
to get out of the country.
He was going to help me.
All right. look.
if all of this is true.
then the most important thing
for me to do
is to find Edgar waltz.
I can't promise anything else yet.
Okay. yeah.
Fair enough.
- Does waltz know about Freddy?
- No.
If he did. I would be dead by now.
And so would they.
Okay. stay here for now.
Do you know where
you can get him new papers?
I think so.
We were looking through the shop
and found a bunch
of fake passports of my brother's.
I know that man who did them.
His name is Reginald.
Don't tell me anymore. okay?
I'll call you when I get something.
- Thanks. Nick.
- Yeah.
May I help you?
My brother sent me.
Who?
Freddy.
I know you helped him.
And now I need your help.
Please.
What do you want?
A passport.
I...
Do you know who this is?
I can't.
He's been shot.
He came to Freddy for help.
I'm helping him now.
I don't know where else to go.
I'm gonna need some time.
♪ ♪
After being told
of their arrest
I was able to get close enough
with my camera.
for the first time.
to the place where they took the men.
The Verrat enforcers executed farmers
associated with the Spanish Republic.
These enforcers infiltrated
the highest ranks
of the monarchists and Franco's army.
They exacted Verrat law.
across the land. with impunity.
Accused of stealing.
these innocent Wesen
were executed without trial.
Their true crime was marrying
outside their own breed.
The Verrat enforcers were
identified as Hundjager.
from a race so tenacious and vicious
that it is said they are birthed
by consuming their own mothers
from inside the womb.
Edvard Grimm. Madrid. 1936.
Yeah. Burkhardt.
Hello. Detective.
Let me introduce myself.
I'm Edgar waltz.
Apparently you and I
have something in common.
We're both looking for Ian Harmon.
Where are you?
Do you know the terms
of a Freidenreden?
Uh. yeah.
So let's just say.
um. union station. 10:00.
And how will I know you?
Oh. I don't think that will
be a problem. Detective.
Are you always this animated?
Well. you made me miss my yoga.
So...
You care about Rosalee.
I do.
I care about all my friends.
even the ones you don't like.
I don't dislike him.
he's just a Grimm.
Well. we're all equals.
Isn't that what you're fighting for?
Yeah.
What?
Hang on. hang on.
You ever heard of a "Freidenreden"?
- Who is that?
- It's Nick.
Put him on speaker.
Yeah. you're on speaker
with me and Ian.
Who asked you about a Freidenreden?
Waltz called me.
Does he know you found me?
No. I don't think so.
He wants me to meet him at 10:00 P.M.
He asked me if I knew
what a Freidenreden was.
I said I did. but I don't.
It's a truce...
A white-flag meeting.
You both come unarmed and you
both leave of your own accord.
Dude. you can't seriously be thinking
of meeting this guy unarmed.
He will honor it.
They have a great belief
in the sanctity of rules.
Nick. one more thing.
Once the truce is over...
The minute you walk away...
Anything goes.
So watch your back.
Waltz is getting closer.
This place isn't safe anymore.
Detective Burkhardt.
I admire punctuality.
Hands out of your pockets. please.
Well. you too.
So I guess you really did
witness the murder
of the bartender.
Yes. I really did.
Just so you know. once this
little truce of yours is over.
I'm arresting your ass for murder.
If you try to arrest me.
you'd better be armed.
which means you violated the rules.
I don't give a damn about your rules.
I brought mine too.
Rules are meant to be broken.
aren't they. Detective?
But before you get
all bold and brash.
take a look around
and count the number of innocent
victims that will die
if you attempt to arrest me.
So let's not waste time.
I want Ian Harmon. you can find him.
So you can murder him.
You're a Grimm.
I'm a Hundjager.
We're not friends. but. uh...
We've always been...
How shall I put it...
Allies of convenience.
Not around here we haven't.
If you don't help me
find my prey within 24 hours.
you will be finding dead bodies
all over the city.
Would you excuse me for a moment?
Thank you.
Yeah?
There's a woman here.
She's asking for a passport.
like you said.
Good. Keep the package
until I get there.
Oh. and if you attempt to follow me.
I will shoot the first person I see.
Good night.
The killer called you?
Yes. Wu is running
the number right now.
He said his name is Edgar waltz.
He admitted to killing the bartender.
I thought we were looking
for Ian Harmon.
We were. This is the guy
that shot Ian Harmon.
So why'd he call you?
He wants us to turn Harmon
over in the next 24 hours.
Or he's going
to kill more innocent people.
Do we know where Harmon is?
Not yet.
We're not going to be held
hostage by some kind of lunatic.
- Do we know anything about him?
- Not much.
But I believe him.
We ran his name.
but came up with nothing.
Sir. got the I.D. Back on that phone.
Bad news is it's a burner.
Purchased and activated yesterday.
- Any good news?
- Yes. sir.
Phone was at this address downtown
when we triangulated it
three minutes ago...
Place called Reginald's cameras.
Miss. your passport.
Thank you so much.
- What do I owe you?
- Nothing.
- I-I'm sorry.
- For what?
Your brother.
He was a good friend.
Thank you.
Well done.
You promise you won't hurt my family?
Of course not.
You kept your end of the bargain.
I would never dream
of touching your family.
♪ ♪
That must be the burner phone.
He's playing us.
Oh. hi. Are you open?
I'm sorry. we're closed.
Why don't you come back tomorrow?
We open at 9:00.
Oh. please. just a minute.
I was told
I could get some help here.
Give me a minute.
I'll see what I can do.
Thank you.
Thank you so much.
Where is he?
Oh. it's a good likeness.
don't you think?
Look. I'd prefer not
to hurt you. so go ahead.
Call him.
We'll see whose life
is more important to him.
Go on.
Hey. did you make it back from...
He's here.
Get Ian to safety.
Are you done?
Have you said all you wanted to?
May I?
Thank you.
Ian?
I swear. if you touch
a hair on her head...
I don't know who you are.
but let me keep it simple for you.
If you do not deliver
Ian Harmon to me in 15 minutes.
I will kill your girlfriend.
Yeah. Burkhardt.
We have a problem.
We're going back to the shop.
Waltz has Rosalee.
He wants to make a trade.
No. he's not gonna trade.
He's gonna kill you all.
Well. if you got
a better plan. I'm all ears.
Just. um. give me five minutes.
Maybe I can come up with one.
We don't have five minutes. Nick.
Don't do anything until I get there.
I'll wait as long as I can.
but if push comes to shove.
I'm shoving.
You may think I'm a monster. but...
What I am is necessary.
No society can survive without order.
Free thought is not free.
There's no such thing as revolution.
The oppressed always become
the oppressors.
And the cycle repeats itself
over and over.
The only way to win is
to stay out of the cycle.
You don't understand a word
that I've been saying.
I'm sorry. I wasn't listening.
No. no.
You're staying here.
No. no. no.
This is my fight.
Nobody's gonna fight it for me.
The second he sees you. you're dead.
He doesn't know who I am.
That doesn't mean
he's not gonna kill you.
Yeah. I get that.
But we're not doing anything
until we find out about Rosalee.
If she isn't already dead.
Don't let your emotions
get the better of you.
He will use that to his advantage.
That's why he took her.
I have a plan.
You do? For real?
Yeah. I'm going in.
you're staying out.
No. no. no.
You don't understand waltz.
I understand him
better than you think I do.
He won't be expecting me
and he doesn't know my
connection to any of you.
- So what does that get us?
- Time.
Well. it seems like
your Fuchsbau hero is a coward.
Waltz.
- How did you know?
- You want Ian?
- I've got him.
- What?
Shut up.
Get on the floor.
If you've got him. where is he?
- Whoa!
- Who are you?
I'm the guy you called.
I've got Ian.
Who's he?
What the hell is going on here?
You're gonna believe a Fuchsbau?
What are you trying to say. buddy?
- I'm saying you're a liar.
- All Fuchsbaus are liars.
Who did you call?
I didn't call a Fuchsbau.
It's true.
I'm not a Fuchsbau.
Blutbad.
Are you okay?
- It's over.
- No. it's not.
Hey.
Put the gun down.
I can't.
He's right.
Even if he's dead.
they'll send others after me.
Ian.
Oh!
But at least now your friends
will be safe.
Sometimes it's hard to know
that the right thing is.
Sometimes it's not.
Nick.
Nick. please.
If the Verrat knows where Ian is...
You've got other things
to worry about.
I'm so sorry.
Don't be.
Nick. come on. you can't do this.
- He killed waltz to protect us.
- Listen to me.
There's only one thing
that you need to do.
What?
Get rid of waltz's body.
Yeah. Okay.
Come on.
Get out.
What are you doing?
I'm saving my friends.
If you go to trial. they'll be dead.
Don't come back.
How do you know this is waltz?
Passport.
Found it in his pocket.
And the Luger.
we believe it's the gun used
to shoot the bartender
and the camera store owner.
What about Ian Harmon?
We think he did this?
If someone was trying to kill me.
I'd be trying to kill them.
We ever catch up with this
guy. maybe we'll find out.
I wouldn't be so sure.
Some one else may catch up
with him first.
This world is on the brink of war.
Sync and correction by Mlmlte
www.addic7ed.com